robo sharks in bellies to investigate
the memory of the largest fish in the
sea
a kilometer down channels are on their
way
[Music]
whale sharks
they migrate thousands of kilometres
along this coastline and huge depths
[Music]
down here the immense pressure would
crush revenue sharks
[Music]
but our spine has a tip-off that the
whale sharks are about to come up for a
rendezvous and once again their right to
only kill
at the same time each year they gather
at a specific offshore leaf
more whale sharks arrived all young
males around 25
but when I come to the surface now
they're drawn to a spectacular feast
posted by Slammers once a year they come
together and in late afternoon as the
full moon rises they start to spawn
[Music]
the snappers reproductive frenzy
provides a high-protein blowout one of
the highlights of the whale sharks year
[Music]
whale shark is a giant filter feeder
its massive throat and gill muscles
create a suction pump that serves spawn
filled water over the filter bridge and
it's killers
[Music]
for me the Sharks gorge on this
short-lived food source
[Music]
unlike salmon for example which returned
instinctively to their birthplace
following chemical clues somehow these
sharks learn where the snapper bar and
then remember to come back to this exact
location each year